+++
title = "Intelligent Balancing Group Management"
project_id = "M4"

# Properties for displaying the project in the project list
card_image = "logo.svg"
card_description = "Balancing group management is a process in which so called balancing group managers try to balance power surplus and shortage by reducing or increasing the amount of electricity that's bought into the balancing group. The Exxeta Intelligent Balancing Group Management Dashboard supports the manager's decision making by displaying power consumption forecast data, generated by machine learning models in an efficient and intuitive way to support a modern balancing group management."

source_link = "https://gitlabci.exxeta.com/ibkm-serverless"
team = ["Katharina Blass", "Nguyen Do", "Nhu Tran", "Alain NgoufackNguefack", "Mischa Koischwitz", "Robin Decker" ]
supervisor = "Dr. Ludwig Rauch"
+++


{{<mediathek id="73fc815213cba6193247e9f2e057d364" title="Presentation">}}

{{<section title="The Objective">}}
The goal of our project was, to create a modern, visual interface between a machine learning model that provide forecast data and the user. The data should be represented in an efficient and intuitive way to support the user's decision making for balancing group management.
Further more the user should get insight into the machine learning blackbox through an Explainable AI tool that provides plausiblity for the generated forecast by displaying the main influencing factors that have an impact on it.
In order to keep the project as cost efficient and scalable as possible, we agreed on building our entire system on a serverless architecture.
This enables us to run the application without any fix cost since cloud computing allows to only pay for the amount of computing power that is used by our system.

In order to accomplish our task we wanted to design and implement a **web based** dashboard which visualizes the data provided by the KI-Models.
The user should be able to **efficiently and easily** get an insight into the data provided by the models and our backend. 
To make sure that our application serves the user's needs, we wanted to create our application based on a **user centered design process** that includes **user interviews** and **final user testing**.
Another important aspect was to work strictly within a serverless architecture. We therefore were forced to **avoid using any persistent data or file storage** for the features we planned to implement for our minimum viable product.
{{</section >}}

{{<section title="The Team">}}
Since we were a rather large team we created smaller teams for project management, design, frontend and backend.
Nhu & Katharina were focussing on design, The-Anh and Alain were responsible for our project management, Mischa and Bach worked on the serverless architecture and Robin's main task was to work on the frontend.
Although we did set up a team structure we were able to work interdisciplinary most of the time, giving each other input, helping each other and building the final application all together.
{{</section >}}

{{<gallery>}}
{{<team-member image="nhu.jpg" name="Nhu">}}
{{<team-member image="mischa.png" name="Mischa">}}
{{<team-member image="the.jpg" name="The-Anh">}}
{{<team-member image="alain.png" name="Alain">}}
{{<team-member image="katharina.jpg" name="Katharina">}}
{{<team-member image="robin.jpg" name="Robin">}}

{{</gallery>}}
